[toc]

# 面试英语（考研或者保研）

## 自我介绍

**模板：**

Good morning, professors. I am really glad to be here for this interview. Now, please allow me to give a brief self-introduction. （问候） 

My name is ××, 22 years old. I was born in Dali, a beautiful city in Yunnan province. It was when I entered the Southeast University 4 years ago that I officially became a student majoring in Road and Bridge Engineering. Through studying Professional knowledge and reading books involving relevant specialty, I find myself gradually obsessed with the charm of this major and would like to make some contributions in this field. At the same time, I realize that until now what I have learned is far from enough for this target, so I take it necessary to continue my learning in this field, that is, I choose to go further with my study to achieve a master’s degree. （基本信息：姓名、年龄、家乡、 本科学校、专业，说到专业后，进一步介绍想要读研的原因：对专业感兴趣，渴望深造学习） 

During the four years in this beautiful college, I have been studying very hard and was granted scholarship several times such as National Encouragement scholarship and Mathematics curriculum Award. In addition, I participated in various subject competitions actively such as The Zhou Peiyuan Mechanics Competition for College Students, Structural contest, Mechanical contest, Mathematical model competition and CAD skills competition. （突出本科的一些亮点：所获奖项，参加的竞赛/项目等） 

In my spare time，I enjoy taking part in some activities held by student clubs. Moreover, table tennis, badminton, Chinese chess and riding are my passions, which enrich my campus life very much, and also benefit me in many ways, like keeping fit, making lots of friends as well as developing my logic intelligence.（兴趣爱好） 

Last but not least, I am easy-going, open-minded, and warm-hearted, therefore, I have established good relationship with my classmates. As is well-known, Southeast University is an outstanding college with perfect academic atmosphere and highly qualified faculty. And I would appreciate it if you could give me the chance for further study! （夸一夸目标院校，并表示非常渴望进入目标院校学习） 

That’s all. Thanks for your attention!

**实例：**

Good morning, professors. I am really glad to be here for this interview. Now, please allow me to give a brief self-introduction. 

My name is ××, 22 years old.I was born in Huanggang, a beautiful city in Hubei province.It was when I entered the China  University of GeoScience 4 years ago that I officially became a student majoring in  software engnieer. Through studying Professional knowledge and reading books involving relevant specialty, I find myself gradually obsessed with the charm of this major and would like to make some contributions in this field. At the same time, I realize that until now what I have learned is far from enough for this target, so I take it necessary to continue my learning in this field, that is, I choose to go further with my study to achieve a master’s degree.

During the four years in this beautiful college, I have been studying very hard and was granted scholarship several times such as National Encouragement scholarship . In addition,I made a project with my teacher.The project mainly studies cross-age facial emtion recognition,and I learned the knowledge point related to computer vision.

Last but not least, I am easy-going, open-minded, and warm-hearted, therefore, I have established good relationship with my classmates. As is well-known, xxxx University is an outstanding college with perfect academic atmosphere and highly qualified faculty. And I would appreciate it if you could give me the chance for further study! 

That’s all. Thanks for your attention!



## 英语问题

1. **How do you plan to study for your graduate programme?(研究生的生涯规划)**

   In my view, the plan is of great importance for research. So firstly , I will choose a certain approach in my study area with tutor's guidance ; Then, I will draw a pragmatic Research plan and time schedule. I hope I can form a systematical view of my major; Thirdly , I will make myself be familiar with the latest development of this area by reading books and journals. I do hope I will get somewhere in this field. If necessary, I will continue my research and study to earn the PHD degree.

2. **Why do you plan to make master’s degree? (你为什么要读研？)**

   During the past 4 years, Through studying Professional knowledge and reading books involving relevant specialty, I find myself gradually obsessed with the charm of this major and would like to make some contributions in this field. At the same time, I realize that until now what I have learned is far from enough for this target, and I take it necessary to continue my learning in this field, so I choose to go further with my study to achieve a master’s degree.
   
3. **Why did you choose our university?（你为什么选择我们学校？）**

   As we all know, Southeast University is an outstanding school with perfect academic atmosphere and highly qualified faculty. So I would appreciate it if you could give me the chance for further study!

4. **What are your spare time interests?（你的兴趣爱好是什么？）**

   In my spare time，I enjoy taking part in some activities held by student clubs. Moreover, table tennis, badminton, Chinese chess and riding are my passions, which enrich my campus life very much, and also benefit me in many ways, like keeping fit, making lots of friends as well as developing my logic intelligence.

5. **What’s your major? Why do you choose it as your major?（为什么选这个专业）**

   Firstly,when i was a kid,I considered computer and computer programing is really cool.Secondly,After i graduated from high school,my family recommended this major to me.Theerefore, i choose it as my major 

6. **What do you intend to do after you finish studying?（毕业后打算？）**

   If possible, I will go on with my study for doctorate degree. After graduating received doctorate degree, I wanted to teach in university.

7. **What kind of food and dishes do people eat in your hometown?（家乡介绍，好吃的好玩的）**

   My hometown is Huanggang ,a beatiful city in HuBei province.It has alot of culture heritage,like    Huangme opera.In addition,Huanggang has many delicious food,ammong which fish noodles are my favorite.

8. （**介绍家庭，家人工作，和家人关系等）**

   I have two family members,Father and mother.I have a good relationship with them,My father often encourages me and makes me confident.My mother usually comforts me and makes me feel warm.

9. **Describe the most unforgettable success in your life.(一件最难忘的成功经历)**

   My greates achievements is to get the National encouragement scholarship through efforts.

10. **What is your impression of xx城市? ("你对xx城市的印象如何?"，以南京为例)**

    I have good impression to Nanjing, Nanjing is a beatiful city with a long history, it is very good to me, I like this city.

11. **"What is your greatest strength"?" ("你最突出的优点是什么?")**

    My strength is hard work,I got a scholarship through hard work.

12. **(缺点)**

    My disadventage is sloppy. I often fail in exams and progamming beacause of sloppiness.




